Ingestion means the process
of getting the data
into the data system that
we are building or using.
Now you might think,
why is it worth talking about?
We'll just read the data from somewhere,
like a file.
And then using some command,
place it into the data system.
Or we'll have have some
kind of a web form or
other visual interface and just fill it
in so that the data goes into the system.
Both of these ways of
data ingestion are valid.
In fact, they're valid for
some big data systems like your
airline reservation system.
However when you think
of a large scale system
you wold like to have more automation
in the data ingestion processes.
And data ingestion then becomes a part of
the big data management infrastructure.
So here are some questions you might want
to ask when you automate data ingestion.
Now take a minute to read the questions.
We'll look at two examples to
explore them in greater detail.
The first example is that of a hospital
information system that we discussed in
course one in the context
of precision medicine.
We said that hospitals collect
terabytes of medical record
from different departments and
be considered big data systems.
The second example is a cloud based data
store where many people upload their
messages, chats, pictures,
videos, music and so fourth.
The cloud storage also supports active
communication between the members and
store their communication in real time.
So let's think of a hypothetical
hospital information information and
the answer to depressions
that we are putting there.
Now, do not take the numbers
to be very accurate.
They are just examples.
But it illustrates some important points.
One, note that there are two kinds
of likeness associated with data.
Some data like medical images
are large data objects by themselves.
Secondly, the records
themselves are quite small but
the size of the total collection
of records is very high.
Two, while there is a lot of patient data,
the number of data sources that is
the different departmental systems
contributing to the total information
system does not change
very much over time.
Three, the rate of data ingestion is
not enormous and is often proportional
to the number of patient activities
that takes place at the hospital.
Four, the system contains
medical records so
data can never be discarded even
when there are errors in the data.
The errors in this specific case
are flagged but the data is retained.
Now this is the kind of rule
called an error handling policy.
Which might be different for
different application problems.
An air handling policy is part of
a larger scheme of policies called
ingestion policies.
Another kind of ingestion policy involves
decisions regarding what the system should
do if the data rate suddenly increases or
becomes suspiciously low.
In this example we have deliberately
decided not to include it in the design.
Now compare the previous case with
the case of the online store of
personal information.
Again this is just an imaginary example.
So don't think of all
the parameters to be exact.
Now in this case one, the store will
have a fast growing membership.
Each member will use multiple devices
to capture and ingest their data.
Two, over all members together, the site
will be updated at a really fast rate,
making this a large volume data
store with a fast ingest rate.
Three, in this system, our primary
challenge is to keep up with the data
rate, and hence, erroneous data will be
discarded after just one edit to reinvest.
Four, now there is an actual policy for
handling data overflow,
which essentially says,
keep the excess data in a site store.
And ingest them when the data
rate becomes slower.
But if the site store starts getting full
start dropping some incoming data
at a rate of 0.1% at a time.
Now we should see why data
ingestion together with it's
policies should be an integral
part of a big data system.
Especially when it involves
storing fast data.